Data Cleaning

Data cleaning was necessary for our data because there was a high enough amount of outliers that would skew the data when we applied different techniques to give information about the data.

In Table B, there are three columns that indicate the number of items that a customer received early, late, or on time. These three columns then equaled another column, "Total Parts." In an additional column that we created, the three columns were summed and the "Total Parts" column was subtracted to indicate if there were any orders that had not been fulfilled. We found that 5,618 orders had negative values indicating objects not yet being delivered to customers. Since these orders make up only a one hundredth of the total data set, these orders were eliminated from the data set. This was necessary to keep the data from being skewed or having too high of a prediction error.

In Table D, the values that are intended to be in column "type" are 0 and 1. There were values from 2-2000 found in the column which were incorrect data types. These orders with incorrect data types only made up 2% of the data, so they were eliminated from the data sheet. This makes it so only working data is left that contian 0s and 1s.

In Table e, there are two date columns, one which indicates when an order was placed and one when an order was marked as complete. An additional column was added to the table which subtracted the date of order placement from the date of order completion. This allowed for the total number of days surpassed for an order to be seen. After completing the calculation for each order, we found that 157 orders had negative values which indicates that the orders completion date was input as a date that was older than the date in the order placed column. Since this made up a small percentage of our data for this table, these rows were eliminated from the table. Also, there are orders that have null values in the order completion column. To handle these rows, an if-else statement will be used to ignore those orders since we do not have complete data for those orders. 

The Customer Info table has a type column which indicates what type of customer they are. Values that are seen in this column are 0,1, and 2. When filtering the data, there are two outliers. A value of -1 and 27. After looking up the corresponding "Customer ID" we found that those were data entry errors because the customer type was not consistent for the same customer throughout the data set. The values were changed to reflect the correct customer type which came out to be 1 and 2 respectively. 

Looking at the data set, there is a column in each table that indicates customer ID numbers. Each column name is different but after closer inspection, the same values can be seen in each table. To make it easier to access different values for a single customer ID, these tables will be joined using a JOIN operator in SQL.''
